So I posted my latest coding project last night and woke up to it trending on X. It's like being shared by all these people. Oh yeah, I vibe-coded Palantir. Like, we're replacing everything. Palantir's going down. This is worldview, and it's what happens when you take real-time satellite tracking, live CCTV cameras, military and commercial flight data, and fuse it all together against a 3D model of the world, skinned to look like a classified intelligence system. Grok summarized it as, X Google PM time. build spy thriller geospatial dashboard. And yeah, I built this in three days with an army of AI agents. And the Palantir co-founder says, I'm missing real proprietary data fusion. But let me show you what's possible right now and encourage you to do the freaking same. Because if you got domain expertise, this is the time to put it to work. Let's get into it. All right, so my goal was basically to imagine what it would look like if Google Earth and Palantir have a baby. So to start things out, you've got the full globe in here. 3d tiles which by the way i had a chance to work on and launch at google google 3d tiles up in this joint and the first thing you can do is switch between a bunch of different modes essentially if you click through these numbers i can switch between crt night vision and flare and i've got full control over here i can change like the sensitivity i can talk about how much pixelation there is and by the way it's so cool that you can do all these effects in your browser we've got a gazillion data layers that we've hooked up to the ability to actually like plan out your shots so that if you're doing this for content creation, you can jump between them very easily. All this stuff that I built custom to my needs just by talking to AI systems and screenshotting things a little bit. So first things first, I can jump between all these different cities and I had to basically figure out what all the various landmarks are. So I can jump between all the different landmarks. And what's actually cool is that when you jump to these different points of interest, I'm actually looking at open street maps at the 3D volume. of each of these points of interest so they are perfectly centered if you just try to do this naively with latitude and longitude your camera may end up somewhere over here and not where you want it to be so this way i can position the camera perfectly on what it is that i want centered in the field of view and what's cool is i've got this for a bunch of different landmarks across the world and i just talk to it and so i can basically go to any city and like basically jump between q w e r t and like it'll take me to all these points of interest All right, let me zoom out to show you the entirety of the Earth to showcase all the live data layers that have been connected into this to give us a real time operational picture of what's going on. So this is all the satellites that are in orbit right freaking now. This is real time, ladies and gentlemen. And then I've got a detection mode over here where I can do either a sparse set or a full set of detections. This is all the satellites down to their IDs and I can look at all of them. And the cool part is if I click on any one of these satellites, I can suddenly track them in orbit. So this is NORAD 11574. And we're tracking this puppy right now. Here's another NORAD one. And you can see the orbit. And once I click on a satellite, you can see the orbit around the planet that it's in. Is it geostationary, geosynchronous, etc. And of course, you can jump between all of the other satellites out there. So that's in space. Once we start zooming into the planet, we can also use OpenSky to load in live flight data. So give this a second to pop in. We've got 6.7k flights that have been loaded in. I'm going to turn off the tracking just to show you this is like actual live data right now. It's freaking crazy. We got all the planes on the planet tracked in real time against a 3D globe. So if I turn on detection mode over here, what's cool about this is I can also go into any of these planes and track their location in real time. Check out how cool this looks. This looks like a freaking spy movie right now. And so like, look, you can make these as like real things to monitor the situation. Obviously, there's a lot going on in the world all over the place. But if you want to also, you can use this to make some very, very cool visualizations. I mean, just look at this, ladies and gentlemen. Like, why would I go try and build this in After Effects when I could do this in real time in my browser and get all the bells and whistles you want? Again, like if you want to throw some bloom on top, hey, you can throw some bloom there too. You want to sharpen the image. you can create all the filters that you want. Like the way you basically create LUTs for your video editing tools and add a whole bunch of post-processing effects, you can do that all inside your browser. Just tell the agent to code it for you. Now, this is really cool, but can you also look at military flights? So there's this website called ADSB that essentially uses a bunch of crowdsourced data to track all the military planes that are on the planet right now. So all the orange stuff that you see right now, are military planes that typically are not tracked on these plane tracking websites. But thanks to the wonderful world of open source intelligence, you can see what's going on on the other side of the freaking world. Monitoring the situation just got a whole lot easier, ladies and gentlemen. One of the most beautiful things that you can do with... Spatial data is filter stuff, right? So I can isolate basically all the military planes in this case. I think it's absolutely insane that I can go over the Pentagon, zoom out, and see which military flights are happening nearby and jump into any one of them. And in real time, see what satellites are flying above you is kind of crazy. Then you throw in the military planes. Then you throw in all the regular planes. And oh my God, you have built yourself a personal Panopticon, all using open source data feeds. So that's all real-time data. I wanna get back to more real-time data in a second. But just to make the media point for you all, you can also essentially get street traffic up and running. So I've got, in this case, essentially using all the OpenStreetMap road network data. I can query it and essentially spawn a particle system that emulates city traffic. Now, suddenly I've got tracked points across the whole frickin' London Bridge in the city of London, baby. I actually like doing just sparse labels because that way I can show you the whole frickin' city. And especially when I go into things like NVG night vision mode and thermal mode, these things look fucking spectacular. So let me ask you this. You could totally try and make something like this in VO, but why not just code it up and screen record it? You get way more control this way. What's really cool about this is even places where Google doesn't have 3D data. So for example, Dubai doesn't like US companies going and 3D scanning their stuff. This approach will still work. So that's the Burj Khalifa. This is an oblique imagery shot, right? So this is all off the satellite imagery. That's looking off nadir. That's why you got these this perspective view and if I turn on street traffic over here What you'll notice is the road network still gonna look beautiful Let me jump back down to ground level for a second and show you real-time cctv Essentially what i've got going on is basically this whole panel that I created that will let me turn on cctv cameras and pull from the live Cctv cams that we have in austin texas now the cool thing about this is Like this is all openly available. You can see this right now. Somebody whipping by, you've got like some sort of first responder going through. And this data updates at one frame per minute. So it's not real time, but it's a real data of what's actually going on in the city. And so when I pick up one of these cameras, I can jump to it immediately and actually see it projected onto the 3D geometry. So as you can see, that's the same crosswalk over here. And we've got, as you saw, like the vehicle is just updated. So this is insane, right? Like I can jump between real time traffic feeds. Honestly, this feels like this shouldn't be legal, but it is. I'm working on an even more sophisticated calibration system where I can drop a couple points and connect this. That's going to make this near perfect. and figure out all the shader stuff that I need so that it looks very, very realistic projected on. So that's crazy, y'all. Like real-time camera feeds in my city. I mean, this stuff is just available. This is like the type of stuff that I would have spent hours in After Effects doing fakery or like going into Google Earth Studio, exporting a video out, popping it in over here and trying to do different cool things with it. Like now you can just do this. Like it's kind of insane. I've also got tags of every single earthquake, like basically seismic activity that's happening across the globe. So you can start layering this thing up, right? Like you take this, you throw the satellites on there, you throw in some of the military flights, and like suddenly you've got a pretty freaking comprehensive picture of what's going on. And I mean, there's so many other data streams that are on my roadmap to add in here. This is just what I could put together in the last couple days. Now, if you're wondering which coding tool to use to make this stuff happen, all of them work. I use Gemini 3.1 and Cloud 4.6 and even Codex 5.2. Actually, we're on Codex 5.3 now. The whole point being like these numbers are going to keep changing. What you want to do is actually get into the CLI tools. I'm going straight into terminal and telling the AI what I want. Oftentimes, I actually have OpenClaw running three or four of these terminals at once. And this way, I can actually work on two projects at once. And I'm controlling like four, six, eight different agents to get these tasks done. So for example, I had one agent. building out all the shaders on top, right? The way this works is like you have some of the agents doing your style presets. Maybe you have another agent that's going and doing all the data integration to build your particle system for street traffic or military and flight data. And so look, I think sky's the limit, right? Like doing something like this in Blender would have been order magnitude harder. Doing it directly in code in my browser, it's insane what you can do. So look, the crazy part about all of this is like, I worked on Google Maps, right? I worked on this 3D tile dataset that's out in the world. And the biggest thing we'd run into is like developers would have such a steep learning curve to make all of this stuff operate. Now you can do it, too. I mean, the A.I. isn't going to do it all for you. Like one of the issues I ran into when I was doing this panoptic view is like it would just spawn too many particles and just like immediately crash the browser. And so basically I told it, hey, do like sequential loading. Why don't you load in all the main roads first and then get all the arterial roads? So essentially you're doing creative problem solving as you're talking to the system is go play with any of these coding editors. So I would implore you, if you... Haven't seen my videos in the past on like vibe coding for creatives. Check that video out over here. So you get a feel for what it actually looks like to build these things out. And if you want to see more videos like this, where we basically explore all the cool things that you can vibe code, both for creation and spatial understanding of the world. Let me know in the comments below. Anyway, Bilalvo signing off and I'll see y'all in the next one. Cheers.
